JavaScript is a programming language that conforms to the ECMAscript specification.

## Object Literals

```JavaScript
const circle = {
  radius: 1,
  location: {
    x: 1,
    y: 1
  },
  draw: function() {
    console.log("draw")
  }
};
circle.draw();
```

This would be object literal syntax, as denoted by the curly braces.
- An object is a collection of key value pairs.
- An object has members, which are key value pairs, if one of those values is a function, its a method, else, its a property.
- A property is meant to hold values, a method is meant to define some logic.
- This is a simple way to construct an object, but there are other ways as well.

## Factories

If I want to create another circle, I would have to duplicate all the code from that first object literal that I made earlier.

This is a problem if we have one or more methods.  If there is a bug, then we'd have to fix it in more than one place.

If an object has one or more methods, it shouldn't be duplicated like this.  

When objects have methods, they have behavior, and they shouldnt be copy and pasted.

So, go to a factory or a constructor function.

```javascript
function createCircle(radius) {
  return {
    radius: radius, // or radius,
    draw: function() {
      console.log("draw")
    }
  };
}

const circle = createCircle(1)
circle.draw();
```

This is a factory function!

## Constructor Functions

The first thing to note is that the naming convention is slightly different, we capitalize the first letter of the function as if its a class in classic programming languages

We are also no longer returning an object, we are now using the this keyword, to denote that these values are associated with the thing we are talking about.

`this` is a reference to the object that is executing this piece of code

`this.something` will set a property to this new object.

Ok this is interesting, by default `this` is referencing the global object, the window object in browsers. However, whenever we write new, it instantiates a new object, and this is being told to point towards it

```JavaScript
// Constructor Function
function Circle(radius) {
  this.radius = radius;
  this.draw = function() {
    console.log("constructor draw");
  }
}

const another = new Circle(1);

another.draw();
```

New will do three things.
- Creates an empty objects
- Will set `this` to point to that object.
- Will return an object from that constructor function.  So no need for a return statement.

## Which should you use?

Classic developers like the constructor, because it goes along with classes from those languages, even though JavaScript doesn't really have classes.

Others like the factory method, as there is no chance you'll actually change the global object with `this`, and you do this by forgetting to write the `new` operator.

Be familiar with both of these patters.
